[whirring]
[metal door clanking]
- 'Great.'
- 'Get in there.'
[grunting]
[door closes]
- 'Where you wanna put him?'
- 'Right there.'
[panting]
...please.
I won't say anything.
What are you waiting for?
No. No.
No! No!
Aah!
[chokes]
Charles.
[phone rings]
A word when you're finished.
Yes, Mr. Volker.
I'm on my way now.
'Our reservation's at 8:00.'
Come on, you grab his feet.
[man grunts]
- God.
- Man, he's heavy.
You've got the light end.
'Trying to kill it.'
Bye.
Let's get out.
- 'Listen, you around tomorrow?'
- 'Yeah, why?'
'Might have another
job for you.'
[whirs]
Wait.
You hear that?
'Hello, someone there?'
Come out here.
What do we do?
'No choice.'
He's a witness.
Take care of it.
What do we got?
Victim's male, 30s.
Still working to ID him.
Based on the level of decomp,
the coroner thinks
he's been dead
for about two months.
Oakland PD says that's when
the building was boarded up.
Cause of death?
'Because of marks on
the victim's neck'
'the coroner's thinking
strangulation.'
- Dried blood?
- Looks like.
So the victim was killed here
and then moved over there?
Yeah, but no
drag marks, and..
...he looks to be
at least 200 pounds.
'You think there's
a second killer?'
'Big guy like that, tough
to carry on your own.'
Rigsby, did anyone else have,
uh, access to this building?
Not since it
was boarded up.
Oakland PD say there was
no sign of forced entry
when the demo crew arrived
and found the body.
Hmm.
[phone rings]
Excuse me a minute.
It's a remote-controlled car.
I found it, just there.
Odd, don't you think?
Okay, I have an
ID on the victim.
His name's Horatio Jones.
- Horatio Jones?
- Yeah, you know him?
I know of him.
Horatio Jones
'he was a geologist
for an energy company'
owned by Tommy Volker.
He was set to testify before
a grand jury against
Volker two months ago, and
then he disappeared.
I always thought Volker was
behind it, but now I know it.
Volker did this.
[theme music]
The coroner investigator
found tissue
under the victim's
fingernails.
- It's headed to the lab now.
- Good.
And make sure the ME
gets me the results
from the autopsy as
soon as possible.
I want to move
quickly on this.
Yes, boss.
Volker wouldn't have
killed Jones himself.
He never gets
his hands dirty.
I'm thinking it
was Charles Milk.
Well, that would be helpful
if only Charles Milk
hadn't been killed
last week.
The forensics thinks they
might have something.
It might even tie
Volker to the crime.
Oh, you think
he was here?
He gets off on this,
watching his victims die.
- I need Volker's DNA.
- Well, just ask him for it.
- You think he'd give it to me?
- Yes, Volker's arrogant.
He likes to pretend he
has nothing to hide.
Lisbon, answer me this.
Who would leave this here?
- A-a small child?
- Yeah, like 9 or 10 years old.
Something like that.
- Most likely a boy.
- Yeah.
A boy that hasn't been
here in two months
'cause that's when Oakland PD
said this place was boarded up.
What are you getting at?
Well, no self-respecting kid..
...would leave
this behind.
Other than the dust, it's
practically brand-new.
Which means he left it
for an urgent reason.
- He witnessed the murder.
- Or it's just a toy car.
It's thin, I know.
Ifthere was a boy, and
ifhe witnessed a murder
he would've come
forward months ago.
Not if the killer found him.
If that was the case
we would've found his body
with Jones', don't you think?
Yes, one would think.
I'm gonna go
talk to Volker.
And you go and look into
this theoretical kid.
You don't want me
to come with you?
No, I'll meet you
back at the office.
Fine.
[Volker]
The maiden voyage of Volker
intergalactic has been set.
It's been publicized.
We're not postponing.
If you can't find
a solution, find another job.
Agent Lisbon.
I have to admit, I'm
surprised to see you again.
Surprised, but... pleased.
We found your missing employee.
- Employee?
- Horatio Jones.
He'd been missing
for two months.
He worked for a company
you own, VNX Energy.
We found his body earlier
this morning...murdered.
I'm sorry to hear that.
Did you know him?
Oh, I have thousands
of employees, agent.
Unfortunately, I don't
get to meet each one.
Well, that's odd, because
Jones was deposed in a
grand jury inquiry
into your activities.
I said I didn't know.
Not that I didn't
know, about him.
Jones was working
in the amazon
as part of a geothermal energy
project I was developing.
A project that ran
into problems
when a local tribe claimed
the site as sacred ground.
Weeks later, the tribe was
found dead in a mass grave.
This again. I see
we've come full circle.
You were implicated
in a crime.
In fact, a grand jury
was convened
to investigate
your involvement.
That investigation
was dropped.
Only after two people
who were gonna testify
against you
were found dead.
Cassie Flood and Amanda Shaw.
Jones makes three.
Tragic loss, but again..
...territory we've covered.
Jones was on his way to turn
in evidence against you
when he went missing, well,
excuse me, when he was murdered.
Do you enjoy this,
Agent Lisbon?
Hmm?
Wasting your time
on this fruitless effort
to persecute me?
Is that really
why you're here?
Actually, um..
..I came to get
a DNA Sample.
Unless for some reason,
you'd rather not.
And what reason
would that be?
I know you had
Jones killed
'just like Cassie Flood
and Amanda Shaw.'
And this time I'm
gonna prove it.
Best of luck to you, agent.
Alright, here it is, a complete
list of all the children
reported missing two months
ago in the Oakland area.
How many are there?
- '12 total.'
- 'Well, let's cut that down.'
We know we're looking for a boy
between the ages of 9 and 12.
Old enough to be out on the
street, but young enough
to be playing with a
remote-controlled car.
'Okay, that got
us down to five.'
Alright, now the
boy was playing
alone in a
bad neighborhood.
Probably from a low-income
single-parent family.
Two left.
Which one lived closer
to the crime scene?
'Mmm.'
'Marvin Pettigrew.'
'His home is half a mile
from the warehouse.'
Marvin Pettigrew.
- Thank you.
- Mm-hmm.
How'd it go with Volker?
Good. He gave up his DNA.
Just like you said he would.
He's behind this, Jane.
- I know it.
- But?
When the grand jury
investigation was dropped
Volker's lawyers had
all the evidence
and court documents
sealed from the case
including Jones'
deposition.
I think there's something
in there that Volker
doesn't want
us to know.
If I could just get
my hands on it.
Well, why can't you?
They're sealed documents,
Jane, it's against the law.
Well, if you want to get Volker
you can't let that stop you.
What do you suggest?
Well, Ardiles is a deputy DA.
He's gonna have the deposition.
Ardiles is not gonna stick
his neck out for me.
Well, of course not.
He's a smart lawyer.
You have to get
something on him
that will make him
help you.
Blackmail the deputy
district attorney?
Sure. Why not?
Well, how could I
get dirt on Ardiles?
Ask yourself this.
Who makes it their business
to know everyone else's?
Well, I have to hand it to you.
You get right to the point.
It's actually refreshing.
Will you help me?
Maybe.
What's your problem
with Ardiles?
I don't have a problem with
Ardiles. It's about a case.
What case?
- I can't tell you.
- Mm.
I don't know, Teresa.
Brenda
I'll owe you.
One day, you'll need a favor,
and I will owe you.
I can't give you any
specific details
but if you were to mention
the Ferland case to Ardiles
you might find him more
compliant to your request.
- Thank you.
- Teresa.
It's murky water
you're swimming in.
Whatever this is about
I hope it's worth it.
It is.
Marvin went missing.
61 days ago.
His teacher watched
him leave the school.
That was the last
time anyone saw him.
I found a toy car at an
abandoned warehouse.
I just wanted to..
If it, uh, if it
belonged to your son.
[sobbing]
That was his
birthday present.
He'd wanted it
for months.
You say you found
this at a warehouse?
Yeah, half a
mile from here.
I know the one.
Marvin used to walk..
...past it on his way
home from school.
I told him not
to play there.
That, uh, warehouse
was the..
...was the scene
of a crime.
A man was found
murdered there.
Mr. Jane..
...is my boy dead?
I-I-I don't know.
I don't know.
[knocks]
Ardiles.
- Lisbon.
- Thanks for coming by.
Can I get you
something to drink?
A drink? No I, uh, I
gotta be back in court
in 20 minutes, so...
what's this about?
Uh, two months ago,
there was a grand jury
investigation into
Tommy Volker.
A-a witness was deposed by
the name of Horatio Jones.
The documents were sealed.
And?
I need that deposition.
The deposition
was sealed
by a grand jury.
Two witnesses against Volker
have been found dead.
We found a third
this morning.
Yeah, and I'm sorry
to hear about that
but I am not gonna break
the law for you.
I understand. You're
under a lot of pressure.
Maybe it's the job, maybe
it's the Ferland case..
What do you know about
the Ferland case?
Not a lot. Now.
But I will if you don't
get me those depositions.
Okay, you'll have them
within an hour.
Hey, boss. How's it coming?
Nothing so far.
We already know
everything that's here.
What about you?
Did you find anything?
Maybe, in the deposition
Jones mentions that a friend
from college visited
him in Brazil
'Annabelle Sugalski.'
It's a shot in the dark,
but maybe Jones talked
'to her about Volker.'
- Bring her in.
- Okay.
I knew Horatio worked
for Volker, but that's it.
He never really
said much about him.
Did he mention work,
the project he was on?
Briefly, um.
'It was an energy project,
right?'
Yeah. In the amazon.
All he said was that they
were having problems.
Did Horatio say anything
about a mass killing?
No.
You're certain?
Yeah. Of course.
Annabelle, has anyone else
talked to you about this?
What do you mean?
Has anyone asked you to withhold
information from us?
God, no.
Look...I was in
Brazil on vacation.
Horatio and I only saw each
othera couple oftimes
dinner, drinks,
that's it.
I'm sorry I
can't help you.
'I wish I could.'
[Volker]
'So what did you tell them?'
Exactly what you
told me to. Nothing.
And they believed you?
Every word.
And the voice mail
Jones left for you?
I deleted it.
You can check my phone.
You know..
...you're quite
the liability.
And I hate liabilities.
But I like you,
Annabelle.
And I would hate for something
that happen to you.
Please. I won't tell
anyone. I promise.
I'm leaving the
country tonight
you'll never
see me again.
Well, that's a shame.
Goodnight.
Hi.
Any luck
finding the kid?
Well, we gave his name, and
his photo to local police
and the FBI's department
of missing persons
but it's like finding a needle
in a stack of needles.
I heard you talked
to his mother.
Yes. She thinks the worst.
Hard not to agree with her.
What about you?
Burning the midnight oil, I see.
There's gotta be
something here.
Mm.
Jane.
Amanda Shaw
was my witness.
I gave her my word that
I'd protect her
and Volker had her killed.
- You done with this?
- Mm-hmm.
Good.
Good morning, boss.
Just got word.
Annabelle Sugalski left
the country last night.
Flew out on a
red-eye to London.
He got to her.
Damn it.
In Jones' deposition, he
said that he gave evidence
against Volker
in written reports.
I saw that, but none
were ever found.
What if Jones gave
them to his employer?
- VNX Energy.
- Let's go check it out.
That was the ME, with the
test results from the autopsy.
DNA identifies Charles Milk
as one of the killers.
The ME also found a second DNA,
a strand of hair.
Was kind of hoping it was
Volker, but no such luck.
No, Volker's far
too careful.
So far, no match in
the federal database.
It does prove there was another
person present at the murder.
The question is,
who was it?
Hi. We need to speak
with a manager.
- Is everything alright?
- Just have a few questions.
- Let me get him.
- Alright.
Come on.
We're leaving?
Volker has been a step ahead
of us this entire time.
He finds out we're looking
into VNX Energy
any chance we have of finding
that evidence is gone.
[Volker]
'"It rained for a week'
'"night and day.'
'"During the week the fish
were in their houses'
"keeping nice and warm.
"When it finally
stopped raining
"all the fish went outside
"and saw Spike in a small
puddle growing gills.
"The fish yelled,
'How's life in the water?'
"And Spike yelled
back, 'Great.'
"'Come on in.'
"And that is why
fish live in water.
"The end."
What do we say to Mr. Volker
for sharing his time with us?
[children]
Thank you, Mr. Volker.
You're very welcome.
- Thank you. See you again.
- Mm-hmm.
Bye, kids.
Uh, Mr. Volker.
Patrick Jane.
I work with
Teresa Lisbon.
Ah, yes. Mr. Jane.
Nice to meet you.
Any friend of Teresa's.
She's a-she's a fascinating
woman, isn't she?
Certainly.
Well, that was impressive.
Not only are you a
super-successful businessman
but you're quite the
vivid storyteller.
For a moment there, I
was splashing around
in that puddle with Spike,
growing some gills.
[chuckles]
Was there something
you needed?
Need? No.
I just wanted to meet you
while I have the chance.
Are you going somewhere?
No. But you are.
After your arrest, things are
bound to get a little hectic
and I probably won't have the
chance to introduce myself.
- So, so here I am.
- Very droll.
But you and
I both know
that I'm not gonna
be arrested.
You sure about that?
Are you finished?
Yes.
[indistinct chattering]
[phone rings]
[Patrick]
'Gray suit,
salt-and-pepper hair'
'about 6 feet tall.'
'He's coming out now.'
Alright. Got him.
[camera shutter clicks]
Good evening, Agent Lisbon.
I am sorry to bother
you, your honor.
'Alright, let's see it.'
- So how are Emily and Ruth?
- They're good.
Emily's at
Santa Cruz, right?
- Santa Clara.
- Yeah.
- Is this all you have?
- Yes.
But it's clear that Tommy
Volker is a very dangerous man.
Well, that may be
true, Agent Lisbon..
...but this is not
enough for a warrant.
Your honor, if you just--
You have no proof
that evidence against Mr. Volker
is inside VNX Industries.
I'm sorry. I can't sign it.
Yes, your honor.
Good evening.
[phone rings]
Hello, Lisbon. What's up?
I just left Judge Davis' office.
She won't sign
the VNX warrant.
Are you asking me
what I would do?
No. I already know
the answer.
Okay. Goodnight, Lisbon.
'I am sorry, but
that was my office.'
We got it, confirmation
that there's evidence
against Thomas Volker inside
the VNX Energy offices.
What kind of confirmation?
It's a coworker of Jones who
still works at the company.
I can get you a transcript
of the questioning
first thing in the morning,
but time is of the essence.
Got something.
'Don Clyde, 48.'
'No priors.'
Looks like he was a ward of
the state when his mother died.
'Spent the last six years
working as'
'a private security contractor
in the Middle East.'
A mercenary.
Does he have any family?
Uh...yep.
Younger brother,
John Clyde.
But he's serving two years in
Lompoc on a battery charge.
Mm.
Alright. I want this to be
careful and methodical.
I don't want anything
to slip through the cracks.
Oh, no.
Volker.
How'd he know?
I'm looking for Agent Lisbon.
'Boss.'
What are you doing here?
Such hostility.
And here I thought we
were mending fences.
Answer the question.
I came to ask you to drop
this ridiculous investigation.
I hate to see an
officer of the law
humiliated like this.
Cho, will you show
Mr. Volker out of here?
Gladly.
I'm only looking out
for your best interests.
No, you're not.
You want us to think that
you're gloating, but you're not.
You're afraid.
- Afraid?
- Yeah.
well, this certainly is a
strange way of showing it.
I can see right through you.
We were close, searching
your offices like that.
'Too close.'
You want us to think
that you're in control
that you're untouchable.
But you're not.
You're afraid of us.
And you should be.
So you think Don Clyde
helped kill Horatio Jones?
Yeah, I'm sure of it.
Well..
...fairly sure of it.
But we have no proof.
Correct.
So if we bring him in, we
won't have any leverage
but if we keep digging,
Volker might find out
and make him disappear.
So bring him in
and fake the leverage.
[tires screeching]
- Get out.
- Hands in the air.
- Whoa, whoa, whoa.
- Turn around.
- Whoa.
Do it now.
Come on, what is this?
- What's going on?
- Get in the car.
Oh, man.
What did I do?
[tire screeching]
We know you work
for Tommy Volker.
You were working for him
the day that you
and Charles Milk murdered
Horatio Jones.
Volker was there,
wasn't he?
I don't know what
you're talking about.
We can help you, but you're
gonna have to work with us.
Something just
occurred to me.
You haven't asked
for a lawyer.
'Why?'
A man in your vocation, wouldn't
that be second nature?
Only guilty men
need lawyers.
Nice try,
but that's not it.
We'll go back to that.
I just want to run
a theory by you.
You see, we know someone
saw you kill Jones.
A boy.
Marvin. He saw what
you did, didn't he?
Yes.
So you killed him.
I would never
kill a child.
No, you wouldn't.
You didn't choose this life,
you were forced into it.
A ward of the state
with no options.
You don't enjoy
what you do.
And you're not a sociopath
like Volker or Charles Milk.
So you let one of them
kill the boy.
- No.
- No?
Unless..
...unless he's
still alive.
He is, isn't he?
You couldn't kill him
but you couldn't let
a witness to a murder
'that you committed,
go free.'
So you took him, you gave him
up to someone you trusted.
The boy would be
safe, and any talk
of murder would
fall on deaf ears.
What did you do
with him, Clyde?
Where is Marvin Pettigrew?
If I talk...I'm a dead man.
If you don't, it's just
a matter of time.
Think about your
situation here.
We are gonna start actively
looking for Marvin Pettigrew.
When Volker finds out
that you let a witness go
a witness that could tie
him to the Jones murder
what do you think
he's gonna do?
You know his methods
better than anyone.
I'm not saying
another word. I..
[coughs]
No.
So what now?
We have to let him go.
Volker will go after him,
just like you said he would.
Yes, but not today.
Volker's not that good.
Ah, and meanwhile, Clyde
will lead us to Marvin.
- Exactly.
- Cold, I like it.
Rigsby.
I'm releasing Clyde.
'Drop him off a
couple of miles away.'
Volker cannot know
he was here.
Sure thing, boss.
Cho, I need you
to tail him.
Maybe he'll lead us
to Marvin Pettigrew.
You got it.
Alright, get down.
My apartment's
half an hour away.
Call a cab.
Yeah, can I have a cab?
Hey.
Oh. Is that diet?
Yeah.
Mm.
Ugh.
It's like a week old.
Why didn't you tell me?
You didn't ask.
[phone rings]
Hello.
How is Agent Lisbon today?
I don't know
what you're talking about.
Clyde...you're lying to me.
'You're a dead man.'
What's he doing?
I don't know.
[tire screeching]
[indistinct chattering]
You said there was
something else.
Yes.
But..
There's no need to be
worried about it, Brenda.
- What is it?
- Please don't make me do this.
Make you?
You entered into this
relationship willingly.
Not this.
I didn't agree to this.
Give me the envelope.
Who is he?
They think he's a witness
to Jones' murder.
[sighs]
Where is he?
I don't know.
I said..
...where is he?
I don't know. I swear.
Mr. Costa..
...I have a job for you.
Did he say anything?
No, he made a call,
dropped his cell
and walked into the street.
Last call was
from Volker's office.
We need to find the boy.
And we need to hurry.
Volker knows about him.
How, you think
Clyde told him?
Someone is feeding
Volker information.
- Yeah, but who?
- I'm not sure.
But that's how he knew
about Annabelle
and the search warrant
for VNX Energy.
And it's how he
knew about Clyde.
It's only a matter
of time before
he finds Marvin.
Van Pelt, did you get a printout
of Clyde's cell phone contacts?
Yeah, right here.
Alright, here's how
we're gonna do this
we'll split up the
list, and see if we can
figure out who Clyde
left the boy with.
We'll need background
checks on everyone.
It'll be someone close to Clyde,
but not immediate family
a cousin, a childhood friend,
ex-girlfriend.
Most likely a woman that doesn't
have children of her own
somewhere between
the age of 25 and 50.
And someone who'd
want to be a mother.
- Exactly.
- Alright.
We're on a clock
let's move.
I think I got something.
Anita Doty, 33.
'She's the ex-wife
of Clyde's brother.'
'She has an arrest
for check kiting.'
She's single,
no dependents.
Clyde sent her money
last month, $500.
Mm. That's her.
Do we have an address?
225-B Cedar Street
in Hayward.
Alright, if we can find
her, so can Volker.
Cho, Rigsby, let's go.
Yep, right behind you.
It's apartment B...
upstairs.
What's this?
That's the job.
What do you want me
to do with him?
What do you think?
I can't do that.
What do you mean?
Get up there now.
No. Sorry. No kids.
I never killed a kid.
I'm not starting now.
I will bury you
for this, you hear me?
You do what you have to.
But I'm not killing
a little kid.
[grunts]
[phone rings]
Hey, Cho. What's up?
'We're at the apartment.'
No one's here, but
the door's broken open.
There are signs
of a struggle.
Do you think he took Marvin?
Can't be sure.
Damn it.
Cho.
- Hang on a second.
- Check this out.
Boss, I don't think
Volker has him.
Why?
Because Marvin's on
a school field trip.
He's at the City Zoo.
Get Oakland PD there.
We're on our way.
[indistinct chattering]
Hey, Marvin?
Marvin Pettigrew?
[tires screeching]
I'm with her!
You see him?
No.
Marvin?
'Marvin Pettigrew?'
It's, uh...it's okay.
I-I need you to come
with me, Marvin.
I'm gonna-I'm gonna take
you to see your mother.
But Anita said that
my mother was dead.
No, no.
That's-that's-that's not true.
I'm gonna-I'm gonna
take you to see her.
'Just come with me.'
Come with me, Marvin.
Come here.
- Let go of me.
- Come here.
- Let go.
- Shut up.
- 'Help!'
- It's Volker. He's here.
'Help!'
[animals chattering]
- Shut up, kid!
- Help! Help!
- 'Hey, what you doing?'
- 'Leave me!'
[female #1]
'Hey, let go of that kid!'
Hey!
'Drop it.'
[gunshot]
Lisbon, you alright?
- Yeah, I'm alright.
- Ohh.
I'm gonna find the kid.
You're under arrest.
[grunts]
- Oh!
- Relax, Volker.
It's over.
[panting]
[indistinct chattering]
[knocking]
Be right there.
Marvin!
- Mom.
- Oh, my God.
Oh, God.
[sobbing]
'Oh, my God.'
[theme music]